{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Superheating and melting curves of geophysically important minerals\
\
Phase transitions in minerals often take more pressure and temperature than theoretically predicted because it forms superheated and supercooled states. This is when a solid is above boiling temperature, but is still a solid and not a liquid. This is shown well and happens a lot in shock wave high pressure experiments. This concept is shown in sharp drops in temperature along Hugonoits. This happens because in shock wave experiments ultrafast heating occurs. So the temperature rises faster than the rate of rearrangement of the atoms required for melting. Shock wave experiments also suppress surface melting.\
\
Melting occurs by nucleation, where a spherical ball of liquid at critical radius r forms inside a perfect crystalline lattice. Nucleation is a function related to beta, or the energy barrier for nucleation. This can be obtained using hard sphere systems. Beta follows trends of periodicity and should be about the same order at high pressures (megabar under shock compression) and at ambient pressure. Usually beta varies in a narrow range of 0.05 to 0.43 for the elements considered.\
\
The maximum superheating temperature can be determined by the minimum supercooling temperature, and those are well documented.\
\
By considering superheating, a point on the melting curve can be obtained in principle.\
\
These experiments to test these things were preformed on alkali halides (NaCl, CsBr, KBr), silicates (quartz and Fo), and transition metals. The superheating on these hugoniot is in reasonable agreement with the superheating systematics except for forsterite. It\'92s superheating corresponds to a beta value of almost 20, an exceptionally high energy barrier. It is possible that this is in fact true or Fo forms new phases from decomposition under shock compression. \
\
There is a R ln 2 rule for entropy of melting and they agree very nicely with previous experiments.}